---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 01: A very fresh start"
---
*I’m borrowing an idea from Lisa Rost’s thesis project: documenting my process & progress on my thesis project daily. I’ll start by answering the same questions she did everyday: What have I done today? What was successful? What wasn’t? Why? What are the next steps?*

Over the last two days I sent some worried and then some inspired emails to Mike Davis, my thesis advisor, to try and come up with a plan and a timeline for what my master’s thesis project will be. I’ve decided to pursue different efforts related to data visualization. (This is the 4th change in direction of my master’s project since I settled on my first idea last May… 😅) I’ll have more to share once I formally write my project proposal and establish the rest of my committee.

The first effort, which I’ve started today, is picking a visualization and redesigning it. I’ve chosen to work with [carboncounter.com](http://carboncounter.com/), “a website that lets users compare the lifecycle emissions and costs of 125 vehicle models against other cars and against climate targets.” (From [Marco Miotti’s portfolio](http://marco.miotti.me/)). When a friend showed it to me I found it confusing and didn’t understand how it could be useful outside of an academic context so I wanted to take a stab at making it useful. 

Today I started working on reading through [the paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/pdf/10.1021/acs.est.6b00177) the visualization is based on. My goal was to first try to understand what the visualization was supposed to do, what the study wanted to accomplish and then to think of ideas of how to make the information from the study more useful to people. In my head, I was thinking of trying to answer the question: *What cars should I be driving to help minimize carbon emissions?* At least, that’s what I was thinking before I started reading the paper.

After going through the paper, I got a better sense of how the visualization worked—the interactivity that I found confusing and initially overwhelming made sense once you understood how those variables options were being used. Understanding this made me think more about the ways I could expand or redesign the graphic with the current data.

As it is now, the paper + visualization, help explain the greenhouse gas emission goals for 2030, 2040, 2050 and show how 125 popular cars currently compare to the emission goals. It also talks about a few greenhouse gas emission-reduction directions that could be taken to meet the emission targets. Which is all really good information to know and better understand. I think a good way to improve the data visualization is to better integrate the information from the study into the visualization. Maybe creating a “scrollytelling” piece that expands on some of the nuances of the data.

Another option is building on the existing dataset by adding more dimensions. For example, you may need a car that has a big boot (trunk; I’ve been watching too much of The Grand Tour). You may also feel safer in an SUV over a saloon car. Or you may need a car that has a specific feature. Following this “redesign path”, might be more in line with my initial thoughts of what a redesign could entail.

I don’t have my mind made up on which option to follow, so I’ll sleep on it. I also don’t have evidence to say that one option is better on the other, and I’m leaning towards starting with the “scrollytelling” integration as a test. But we’ll see.

I also read today. One thing that seemed well-timed was Sarah Leo’s Medium piece, [“Mistakes, we’ve drawn a few”](https://medium.economist.com/mistakes-weve-drawn-a-few-8cdd8a42d368), on redesigning charts that were previously off in the Economist. It doesn’t seem as exciting the more I think about it, but I found the constraint of keeping the improved visualizations a similar size to the original one to be initially really interesting. It’s a good collection of examples of where data visualizations can go wrong and how they can be fixed depending on what’s wrong.

I also started re-reading Alberto Cairo’s *The Truthful Art*. I first started reading it last summer and got to about chapter 4 while on the road. I started from 0 today and made it through the end of the introduction. I don’t have a lot to say about it yet except that the preface + introduction were still as motivating today as a year ago. I really connected to the section where Alberto is talking about what a journalist is. I’ll address it in a separate post later, but throughout my whole time as a News21 fellow last year, I never felt much like a journalist. I felt that I was a designer/photographer doing journalism work.

I also listened more to the audio book of *Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard: The Ship of Dead* when I drove today and a little bit while I was home.

### What wasn't successful today?

I spent quite a bit of time watching Hunter x Hunter on Netflix. I was skimming the show mostly because I had previously read the series, but I still spent a significant portion of the day on the show. It was fun, but not exactly productive.

Other things I wanted to get done today: work on my thesis proposal outline; read a few more pieces by Moritz Stefaner that I had saved; spend some time going through more of *Visual Journalism*.

I also made a list of talks I want to watch and have been meaning to make it a daily habit, but I haven’t been meaning it hard enough.

Those are all the places I think I failed at today. All that’s left is:

### Next Steps

Tomorrow I’ll prioritize my reading of *The Truthful Art* and work to getting through chapters 1 and 2. I’ll also continue working on my carboncounter redesign by collecting the data that was used in the study (I noticed it’s saved in PDFs, so I’ll have to get that all collected and sorted out). I’ll also watch one talk from my list and write about it tomorrow.

---
*Edit: Sharing this on Twitter I started thinking of the Jogging Baboon that appears in Bojack Horseman: "It gets easier. Every day it gets a little easier. But you got to do it every day. That’s the hard part. But it does get easier."  
[Here is a video of that moment.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2_Mn-qRKjA)*