---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 13: Moving along with pandas, F1"
---
112 days to d-day (d stands for defense).
Yesterday, I came up with a list of things I want to look into:

* how driver championship standings change over the course of the season (and how that has changed over the many seasons)
* visualizing all the races taking notes of fatalities, how many races per season, race location, race accidents, and which cars didn't finish
* knowing who all the drivers were, when they raced, and what kind of records they set.
* looking at how the set of constructors have changed and who has been the most successful constructor (both overall and if we were to normalize by how long they were in F1)
* Figuring out the best driver, with different best definitions (most championships, podiums, consistency, most moves up from the grid)

I'm looking to add more to this list. For example, which drivers have moved up the most from their grid position (added it to the list above). I've sent Bjarni an email with the list to see if there's anything else he thinks would be good to look into. 

Thinking about what I'll be making, I'm thinking of something that's a mix of: [A visual history of every Air Jordan](https://pudding.cool/2018/09/jordans/), the [Bloomberg Billionaires Index](https://www.bloomberg.com/billionaires/), and [Rhythm of Food](http://rhythm-of-food.net/).

From the pudding piece I think a similar approach could be applied to every driver (800+) or racetrack(~70). And within each driver's description, more of their career and achievements could be shown/explained. If we focus on racetracks we could point out the history of the track, any fatalities/crashes, and other tidbits.

Using the Bloomberg Billionaires Index as a base, I'm inspired by the biggest movers in Formula 1, on both the sides of the constructors, and the side of the drivers. I want to see how the rankings for the drivers change over the course of each season. And I want to see how career lives of the constructors change: total points over their existence in F1.

From the Rhythm of Food I'm drawn to the seasonality aspect and the depth you can through the data. F1 is an annual sport so I think some aspect of Moritz's piece can transfer to F1 data.

Today I'll be working on F1 and doing more pandas analysis. I think depending on how the day progresses I might take a stab at sketching some visualizations.