---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 02: The road ahead will be bumpy"
---
*I’m borrowing an idea from Lisa Rost’s thesis project: documenting my process & progress on my thesis project daily. I’ll start by answering the same questions she did everyday: What have I done today? What was successful? What wasn’t? Why? What are the next steps?*

Today was bumpy. Like yesterday, I did not get through my entire to-do list. And it’s a little frustrating. One of the things I need to work through as I work on my thesis is to get over or get used to not having the control of my time that I’ve been used to while I’ve been living on my own. My afternoon got filled with some errands.

I did get through my reading of the first two chapters of *The Truthful Art*. I’ll write about them tomorrow (instead of reading the book tomorrow). I spent some time looking for the csv/json files of data for the CarbonCounter app, but was not very successful. Currently the only place I’ve found the data is in a PDF of supporting information. So I’ll be working to transfer numbers to CSV’s tomorrow.

[Yesterday](https://makeinformationuseful.wordpress.com/2019/03/28/thesis-update-day-1-a-very-fresh-start/) I was thinking about two redesign directions I could follow. I’m still not fully sure which one is correct, but I’ll move forward with creating a scrollytelling version that combines the paper and the visualization. I feel I could only truly appreciate the visualization once I went understood the study, so I want to create the scrollytelling version to better highlight the context that makes the study interesting.

There are a few more things I wanted to talk about today, but I have to wake up extra early tomorrow so I’ll write about them then.

Next steps for tomorrow are:

* Transfer CarbonCounter data from PDF to CSV
* Actually watch a talk from my list
* Write about Chapters 1+2 of *The Truthful Art*
* Write about the two other things I didn’t get to today.
* Read another profile from *Visual Journalism*.