---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 21: 100 Days and a new, new direction"
---
Over the weekend I got feedback from Alberto on my [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16LbWha2qk56mawVR8bYwsTJMAWMQ6hOihMLpJwbu0o0/edit?usp=sharing):

> "Why three projects? Just one is more than enough work for three months, I can assure you, if you want to design something that, say, is worth publishing by The Pudding. I'd prefer to have a very strong, deep, well-designed project rather than three merely OK ones."

I thought about it for the longer part of the day and whined a little and ended up writing to Mike about re-focusing my efforts into making something worth publishing by The Pudding. So I'm looking back to gather my thoughts and move forward to prototyping the angles I have so far.

I have 100 days until the defense, and I think I can get further and more focused if I were to treat this like a proper design project. I've had some time to look at the data and ideate directions (listed bellow). I'll review them and pick 3 to explore and make prototypes for. Each prototype should help me answer a question that I'm most worried about with each idea.

All ideas I've had related to Formula 1:

* Creating a visual history of the cars (an analogue to The Pudding's piece piece on Air Jordan sneakers), looking at every championship driver's car, as well as the cars that appeared in one-off races. The goal being to chart the evolution of F1 cars from 1950 to present, providing seasoned fans of the sports opportunities to find new information and to provide an introduction to the sport via the cars to a newbie fan. Maybe a visual history of the cars noting the really interesting ones and why they're interesting in the same style as the Pudding piece, [A visual history of every Air Jordan](https://pudding.cool/2018/09/jordans/). I can see myself cutting the car up into modules and transitioning each piece during the move forward.
* Look at the championship drivers and try to find who the best drivers from this subset have been. For this idea I wanted to focus on seeing how dominating they were in their season and how they compared to their teammate who drove the same car. 
* Creating an annotated timeline of the sport where each race was on the x-axis and the y-axis was the standings at each race. I'd then add annotations to notable events during each race (final races, fatal crashes, special cars debuting, championship securing race).
* Creating a simulation where you pick two drivers and have them race on a variety of tracks to see who's better.
* look at standings and figure out who's the best driver in each category: most podiums; most championships; takes their constructor up the standings; races for a constructor who's been previously successful in the championship; averages a high ending position over seasons; time series of positions over seasons; overtakes the most.
* Who have been the best drivers in the first 1000 races? I want to look at the history of the sport through the drivers and the races and the impactful events. I was thinking the main graphic element would be the slope diagram that charts the driver standings over the course of each season. Then I add annotations to special events that happen at each race. Some examples I'm thinking of are: clinches world title, fatality, announces retirement, first podium, retires from race due to mechanical damage, started in P-12 and ended in P4. I could then see who have been the really consistent drivers and who have been the best drivers: schumacher, senna, vettel, hamilton, etc. I could use this idea and snapshot it to talk about the best drivers, and then have a more interactive version of it at the bottom for people to play with. I don't know yet how it would play out on mobile (maybe it's vertical plots vs horizontal ones; or maybe it's not even phone friendly).
* how driver championship standings change over the course of the season (and how that has changed over the many seasons)
* visualizing all the races taking notes of fatalities, how many races per season, race location, race accidents, and which cars didn't finish
* knowing who all the drivers were, when they raced, and what kind of records they set.
* looking at how the set of constructors have changed and who has been the most successful constructor (both overall and if we were to normalize by how long they were in F1)
* Figuring out the best driver, with different best definitions (most championships, podiums, consistency, most moves up from the grid)
* Looking at how often drivers switch racing teams and if that correlates with their performance (win in a small team, get a big team to pay you more?)

I want to keep in mind projects I admire:

* [Bloomberg Billionaires Index](https://www.bloomberg.com/billionaires/)
* [A visual history of every Air Jordan](https://pudding.cool/2018/09/jordans/)
* [Rhythm of Food](http://rhythm-of-food.net/)

On 17 April, I wrote this:
> From the pudding piece I think a similar approach could be applied to every driver (800+) or racetrack(~70). And within each driver's description, more of their career and achievements could be shown/explained. If we focus on racetracks we could point out the history of the track, any fatalities/crashes, and other tidbits.  
> Using the Bloomberg Billionaires Index as a base, I'm inspired by the biggest movers in Formula 1, on both the sides of the constructors, and the side of the drivers. I want to see how the rankings for the drivers change over the course of each season. And I want to see how career lives of the constructors change: total points over their existence in F1.  
> From the Rhythm of Food I'm drawn to the seasonality aspect and the depth you can through the data. F1 is an annual sport so I think some aspect of Moritz's piece can transfer to F1 data.

I'll revisit this for inspiration: [https://visual.ly/tag/formula-1](https://visual.ly/tag/formula-1). I can also keep these pages in mind: 

* [F1 fatalities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Formula_One_fatalities)
* [a visual history of F1](https://www.sportschord.com/formula-1)

### New New Direction

I "pitched" three angles for Formula 1 stories visualizations to Alberto on Saturday:

1. A visual history of the cars
1. An annotated timeline
1. Looking at the championship drivers to show who the best one is.

I heard back from him this afternoon:

> What about if you choose just one topic but you design those THREE big sections for it? That way it'd be equally challenging, but much more focused. And you'd have three portfolio pieces, but that could be published as a single very long story.  
> And you could pitch this to The Pudding.

This is one way to reconcile things. I'll have to update my proposal file, but we'll have three chapters on Formula 1:

1. An analysis of the championship drivers
1. An annotated timeline of the first 1000 races
1. A visual history of the cars.

I'll be looking at this more closely this week, what each one would entail and keep working on the championship driver analysis. Ali made the good suggestion of setting the end of this week as a deadline for modifying my thesis further. I'll be holding myself to this.