---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 07: What I've been up to. (again)"
---
Last week I tried to write my proposal on Thursday and Friday. A large percentage of that time was spent thinking through how I could connect the efforts. I was thinking of framing the work as an effort to build a portfolio to use to get a job as a professional. I spent quite a bit of time explaining my grad school experience and why I didn't already have a dataviz portfolio (I focused on exploring many different things and did not build depth in any area), and once I got something there that worked I moved to trying to connect that with the formal constraints I was proposing:

1. one redesign of an exisiting visualization
1. one visualization done for another person
1. one visualization that was self-initiated.

While working on this connection, I spent some time with [Deb](@yuncod), an inspiring designer and grad student at UM, on Saturdary. I had some questions about the UM Interactive Media program because I do want to get another degree, but I was having doubts as to what it would be in and when. During the conversation she helped guide me through some of my contradicting goals and statements. I needed that. I spoke with her about my current dataviz efforts, and she's nudged me to find an actual theme to work within (and not just a formal constraint) for my thesis project. I went back to ideating yesterday and today and will be doing as much of that as possible this week, as well as researching potential ideas. 

One thing she recommended was putting together a daily routine and treating this time where I'm working on my thesis and don't have to be out earning-money as an opportunity to build that kind of focus. This week I'm focusing on blocking off the times I work most effectively at and also working on prioritizing the things I need to accomplish each day, and keeping that list to three items. The first two days haven't been great with respect to this. Yesterday my morning was interrupted by waiting to go to an appointment and then me starting physical therapy for my lower back. Followed by lunch with my dad and errands that took me until late-afternoon. I ended up working at night. I still managed to get through my three items for the day. But I was frustrated by not being able to have the control of my time I'm going for.

Today I forgot to pick three items, but have had more control of my time. I started looking into homelessness and what kind of public data existed. I also went through the Guardian's piece on cities providing one-way tickets for homeless people, [Bussed out: how America moves thousands of homeless people around the country](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/ng-interactive/2017/dec/20/bussed-out-america-moves-homeless-people-country-study). It was really well-done, the data was presented in a way that made sense, and the interviews added a lot of depth.

I also spent some time trying to learn more about how to find stories in data. I was worried I didn't know something, but am more confident now that I understand that the process I've been following is generally standard: (this process is not complex)

1. have question to answer with data
1. find data that may answer question
1. clean data
1. visualize/analyze data
1. work to best present the answer to the question you had

### American Reportage project

In other news, I have a better idea of what topic I'll be working on for the visualization effort related to American Reportage. I got an email from Mike yesterday saying that when he last left them they were between two topics:

* "What happens when the Wal-Mart closes in your town" -- This gets into the country’s economy, politics and many other aspects of life in this country. The suggestion was to connect with a handful of employees as they leave the Way-Mart job and see what happens to them.
* "Finding America" -- This is in advance of the 2020 census. The goal would be to photograph people who define America’s uniqueness. One option is to photograph amazing people who were not born in this country.

The gist behind this effort is that the collective [American Reportage](https://americanreportage.com/) is getting together to do their first collective-wide project. Mike is helping (advising, I think) on project structure, and he helped me connect with them so I can do some dataviz work for them with respect to their chosen topic.

For the Wal-Mart topic, I've been wondering:

* How fast have Wal-Mart stores spread around the country/world? How many of them have closed? 
* What exisited in the same plot of land before a Wal-Mart was built? What exists in place of the Wal-Marts that have closed?
* What types of businesses have Wal-Mart killed? How fast have the deaths of the businesses been?
* Do Wal-Marts closing add to the food deserts in America? Are they currently counted? How do they impact the situation?

On the topic of "Finding America":

* I have not looked at census data beyond finding populating information for cities we visited during [*The State of Hate*](https://hateinamerica.news21.com/roadtrip/) roadtrip.
* Deb had coincidentally recommended looking for stories in the Census data on Saturday and this project would involved working primarily with the census
* How do we define "unique"? Can different definitions or approaches to "uniqueness" lead us to something like the seven wonders of America
* Maybe it could be a series of trends that have happened since the last census and seeing if they occur in the next census (maybe with a post-thesis follow up piece). That feels like something that would be published ahead of the census.

I'm waiting to get a confirmation from Mike on what topic Amer. Reportage is moving forward with, and once I have that I'll move forward with more research on one of the two topics.

### Other efforts

Last week I was working on trying to redesign [Carbon Counter](http://carboncounter.com/) so that it better included the context from the paper the figure was based on and provided a bit more analysis of the data they had collected. I reached out to the developer last week to see if the code and data was available in a repository somewhere and hit a little bump. I managed to find the CSVs used to create the visualizations, but I want to make sure I'm not missing anything else so I can compute things myself and not be crazy off.

In thinking about a theme I've been reconsidering the redesign effort in my thesis. I think it was a useful first step to get in the mindset of thinking about data and visualization and insights given how long I had not focused on that (I hadn't done much data work since the end of News21). But, I want to make sure I create two good efforts to present in August. And given how wishy-washy the control of my time is right now I don't want to create unneccessary hurdles. So I'm leaning to just making two visualizations.

With that in mind, I've been thinking about my second data visualization project. It's why I was looking at homelessness today. Ever since I learned that there was [such a thing as "hostile architecture" or "defensive design"](https://www.vox.com/videos/2017/12/1/16724914/hostile-architecture-defensive-design-uncomfortable-benches), I've been wondering what cities are the most and least friendliest towards homeless people. I'm not sure if there is a way to explore that exact story within the scope of my thesis, but it's an interesting topic. 

Aside from the topic of homelessness, I've been ideating and taking inventory of what I find interesting and what I'm curious about. In looking at people in industry, my two favorite designers are [Moritz Stefaner](http://truth-and-beauty.net/) and [Lisa Strausfeld](https://informationart.com). I find the variety of work Moritz has done to be interesting and I am inspired by Lisa's focus on information experiences. I'm especially drawn to Moritz's [Peak Spotting](http://truth-and-beauty.net/projects/peakspotting), [Multiplicity](http://truth-and-beauty.net/projects/multiplicity), and [The Rhythm of Food](http://truth-and-beauty.net/projects/the-rhythm-of-food) projects for their multi-faceted presentations of data. In Lisa's work I'm strongly drawn to her Media Lab work because it inspired me to learn more about dataviz and VR when I was starting in grad school and her [GE Home Appliance Energy Use](https://informationart.com/projects/cravath) visualization because I appreciate the focus on products and helping us understand something about all of these products--in this case the cost of using the products in terms of energy, money, gas.

### Next Steps

1. Read 20 more pages of *Visual Journalism*
1. Ideate more questions and topics for my own project
1. Chapters 11 and 12 of *Interactive Data Visualization for the Web*