---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 17: Nothing to note"
---
Yesterday was my sister's birthday and today I was with my mom going between different doctors. Didn't get a lot of work done with my thesis, but made it through some data journalism material as I prep for my fall course.

I also considered the topic of algorithms as one of my three topics. I think it'd be interesting to look at algorithms like the one on [this list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_algorithms) and see how they relate to each other, how popular they are, and when they were formulated. Something like the Accurat piece on solved and unsolved math problems.

I sent my proposal to mike on sunday and I'm still waiting on feedback but I've decided to go ahead and start with the f1 topic. I'm between looking at the cars over the years (champions + other neat cars). This would get into evolution, regulation, and efficiencies and might be based on something like the visual history of every air jordan + an Accurat piece.

Another idea is to look at standings over the seasons and try to find all the great drivers. Some bullet points on this idea:

* Most podiums
* Most championships
* Takes their constructor up the standings
* Races for a constructor who’s been previously successful in the championship
* Averages a high position over multiple entries (related to podiums and and championships)
* Time series of positions over seasons

I'm certain I have the data to do the second approach but will see if I have any of the data to do the first. Tomorrow my grandma is having a cataract surgery so I'll be at a hospital during the day. I'll bring my laptop so I can work while she's there.

Yesterday and today I've been reading Mitch Resnick's *Lifelong Kindergarten* and it's been a good intro into thinking about creative education. I'm wondering how and what I bring to my data journalism class this fall and if it's something I'd be interested in pursuing later. Days ago, Lily had shared a [99%invisible podcast episode on Froeble's gifts](https://99percentinvisible.org/episode/froebels-gifts/) and it begins with "In the late 1700s, a young man named Freidrich Froebel was on track to become an architect when a friend convinced him to pursue a path toward education instead. And in changing course, Froebel arguably ended up having more influence on the world of architecture and design than any single architect — all because Friedrich Froebel created kindergarten." I jokingly asked Lily if she thought I should go to into education. Maybe later in the process I will write about why I want to teach. But the book is good.

Nothing else seems worth mentioning so I'll get on with what I'm doing and head to bed soon.