---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 26: No work on Saturday"
---
Did nothing related to my thesis today except tidy up all the papers I had lying around my desk + shelf and open my proposal and highlight the parts I want to update. I ran errands today and felt slow, lethargic even.

I'm still thinking about what's after and I'm excited to apply to CSE programs. The top schools for Computational Science and Engineering programs (ranked by [CWUR](https://cwur.org/2017/subjects.php#Mathematics,%20Interdisciplinary%20Applications)) are:

1. *USA* University of Texas at Austin
1. *USA* Stanford University
1. *USA* Northwestern University
1. *Spain* Polytechnic University of Catalonia
1. *USA* University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign
1. *China* Dalian University of Technology
1. *USA* University of California, San Diego
1. *USA* Massachusetts Institute of Technology
1. *Singapore* National University of Singapore
1. *Germany* Technical University of Munich

Of these, I'm interested in UT Austin because Prof. Wilcox is there, Poytechnic University of Catalonia (UPC in Catalan/spanish), and TU Münich. MIT is interesting too, but I kind of don't want to go there for grad school. I spent two summers in a robotics lab at UPC and I enjoyed it, so it would be nice. Münich would also be nice, I had spotted their program when looking at product design masters. It's taught in english which is good.

But for now, I focus on my thesis + my upcoming course at UM. And finding a second job/internship for the fall.

At night I think I should spend ~2–3 hours reviewing past coursework. Something I talked about with Bjarni, but something I haven't really started. I was thinking of starting with 18.02 and 8.01 and moving from there. He did something similar while studying for quals and said he wished he had done it earlier. I figure it works because after dinner I usually dick around and get very little done. If I channel that time to reviewing old lessons it could be a slow progress to reviewing my undergrad ahead of more technical work I want to engage in the future. Visualization is a part of it, but I do wish I could do more computational work. I did enjoy the research of that first summer at UPC.

I still dread learning JS. I'm doing it via D3 and I think I found a good book for JS, [*Eloquent Javascript*](http://eloquentjavascript.net/), but we'll see about the whole thing.

Tomorrow I'm going to dad's for lunch which should be... interesting in an interesting way. I'll take a book with me (Maybe the truthful art, maybe minsky).