---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 09: Decent day"
---
I'm going to do my readings and sleep after this because I have an early morning tomorrow. It was a decent day of work. I found the 1950–2018 dataset for F1 races from [here](http://ergast.com/mrd/). I downloaded the csv database because I'm most comfortable with CSV, but I  see value in using the API in the future for a more dynamic visualization.

Today I also finished going through the carbon counter paper and supporting info packet. They did a good job of laying out every thing they computed which will be useful for what I have in mind. I followed up with the developer of the interactive visualization to see if I can get the sample of cars and their parameters from the website. The alternative to not getting it is either building a bigger sample myself, using the 125 cars and updating prices to 2018, or abandoning the visualization.

If something didn't go great today it was setting up time boundaries and managing distractions. I need to be more direct with my family about my blocking time to do this work daily. But we'll improve.

Another thing I want to work on in the near future is to make it a habit to scan and attach my notes from the day to each of these entries.

### Next Tasks

1. 8:30am meeting about a class I'm likely to adjunct teach next semester
1. Next Media Conference!
1. Read 40 more pages from visual journalism. (My goal is to finish the book by Monday.)

### Reading Books

Today I made a list of the next 22 books I want to read in order so I can better focus on finishing them and not hoping around so much:

1. Visual Journalism
1. Interactive Data Visualization for the Web
1. The Truthful Art
1. Unflattening
1. Factfulness
1. Form + Code
1. GEB
1. Lifelong Kindergarten
1. Designer Maker User
1. Ten Principles for Good Design
1. Why Information Grows
1. Interaction of Color
1. Fritz Kahn
1. Information Architecture (the polar bear book)
1. Gustav Klimt
1. The life-changing magic of tyding up
1. BAUHAUS (a brief Taschen book, not the Muriel Cooper huge book)
1. Digital Ground
1. How to Make Sense of Any Mess (re-read)
1. Como Leer Pinturas
1. Universal Principles of Design
1. Drown