---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 16: Shape of my project"
---
110 days until the defense.

Today I didn't do much on the thesis front except think about project structure and [look](https://visual.ly/tag/formula-1) at past F1 infographics. I've been thinking of Mike's comments yesterday on structuring the project:

> "Creating a significant single data visualization package around Formula 1 could work. Or you could do three notable but independent efforts. Both approaches would have value but in different ways. The multiple package would point you to a professional path as someone producing such projects, the giant effort might work better for academia - it’d be like a tenure-level project."  

I was the one to suggest doing 3 different efforts, and now I'm the one suggesting to do less. I'm very much scared by having to create data visualizations that are interactive because I've yet to do one. I mean, I produced the News21 interactive piece in about a month, and I was doing other things: fact-checking, building my federal case database, checking Andrew's excel work.

I think I can pull off three more of those if I get into it and do sacrifice sleep and work around a steady schedule. A benefit of doing three different ones is that I can reach the end of the cycle and move on to the next. 

If I go the three project route:

1. Formula 1 -- Who have been the best drivers in the first 1000 races? I want to look at the history of the sport through the drivers and the races and the impactful events. I was thinking the main graphic element would be the slope diagram that charts the driver standings over the course of each season. Then I add annotations to special events that happen at each race. Some examples I'm thinking of are: clinches world title, fatality, announces retirement, first podium, retires from race due to mechanical damage, started in P-12 and ended in P4. I could then see who have been the really consistent drivers and who have been the best drivers: schumacher, senna, vettel, hamilton, etc.  
I could use this idea and snapshot it to talk about the best drivers, and then have a more interactive version of it at the bottom for people to play with. I don't know yet how it would play out on mobile (maybe it's vertical plots vs horizontal ones; or maybe it's not even phone friendly).

1. American Reportage project: Wal-Mart or 2020 Census. I have an idea to maybe just work on both of these and make them projects 2 or three with the intention of just contributing the one American Reportage picks, but I'm not soo excited by the idea of working with census data unless it's combined with something else. I still haven't heard from them and it's been almost a week. I think I could look at Wal-Mart locations and how the demographic around them has changed. It's not entirely causal but if they close, that's the people that get screwed. I could also look at food deserts and see which existing walmarts would increase food desert sizes if they close. This would be a lot of mapping. But I should talk to Deb about the census to see what she thinks.

1. I was going to redesign the carboncounter piece, but it seems like they haven't gotten back to me. I don't want to have to build my own database for this because I have their data, I just need to know how they distribute things over the different car types. I still think this project could be more interesting displayed in a grid format that changes as you interact with it. Here are some examples from Lisa Strausfeld: [Museum of Arts and Design](https://informationart.com/projects/mad), [Pentagram Website Design](https://informationart.com/projects/pentagram), [GE Home Appliance Energy Use](https://informationart.com/projects/cravath), and [Art Institute of Chicago Interpretive Media](https://informationart.com/projects/aic).

If I go with two projects:

1. Formula 1 -- I do the above and then maybe do something about the cars and the constructors... Maybe a visual history of the cars noting the really interesting ones and why they're interesting in the same style as the Pudding piece, [A visual history of every Air Jordan](https://pudding.cool/2018/09/jordans/). I can see myself cutting the car up into modules and transitioning each piece during the move forward.

1. I do the American Reportage project I described above

A third route is to just do 3 F1 visualizations:

1. The one about the best driver
1. The one about the cars
1. One about a third aspect that I haven't fully defined? Maybe one that looks at the history of the constructors and how those have changed over the year to get the 10 we have now.

I have't looked for other topics. Can I do something about homelessness or can I do something about waste or plastics? I understand the responsibility to do such social work and I think I'm skipping out on it a bit to do more pop-culture related things, and I'm not 100% happy with that.

Maybe I can apply the ideas of the interactive item grid to items that produce waste. Or maybe look at infrastructure spending. I need to talk to Jacquee and Jodi about this.

I asked Erika to check with her dad on EPA data to see if we can make something out of it.

I think I'll go read more of the truthful art and see if that helps me think about other topics to work with.

I was just flipping through the case studies in Scott Murray's *Interactive Data Visualization For the Web* and saw the Data Sketches interview with Nadieh Bremer and Shirley Wu. I checked out their site briefly to see what kind of topics they worked with and noticed their pattern of 4 week cycles. 1 week for data, 1 for sketching, and 2 for coding. I think this would be a good model to follow for the work. I'll be looking through their work tomorrow: [http://www.datasketch.es/august/](http://www.datasketch.es/august/)

I like how they started with generally not overtly social and serious topics, but have ended up doing more work as a result. I'm interested in going more for this approach.