---
layout: post
title: "Thesis 08: A good feeling"
---
I had a full day to myself, I had my three tasks for the day, and I made sure to get 8 hours of sleep (not all at once though).

The end result-- I was still distracted for a large part of the day. I went and downloaded an idle mining app on my phone and that sucked hours out of the day. I did get through most of the tasks. I found [Carlos Monteiro](http://visualoop.com/blog/2707/portfolio-of-the-week-carlos-monteiro)'s infographics in *Viual Journalism* to be quite humorous, but informative (given the little portugese I understood). I worked through Chapter 11 of the *Interactive Data Visualization For the Web* book, but wasn't sure I understood it all so I put it aside to finish tomorrow. 

In terms of ideating and thinking about my project, I tried to generate more questions and topics that I think would be interesting. I talked on the phone with with some of my friends, Erika and Bjarni, and came to the conclusion that my efforts should probably not be connected to the same theme. Instead, I want to create a visualization that is a bit more light-hearted to compliment the work I'll be doing with American Reportage.

To that end, I've decided to create a visualized introduction to Formula 1. I want to look at the races, the teams, the drivers, and create a series of visualization that can help someone new like me learn about the history of the sport. I wasn't a big fan of motor sports growing up, but since I met Bjarni he's slowly introduced me to the motoring world via Top Gear and the Grand Tour. Being home, I was looking for something to watch on Netflix and found the show **Formula 1: Drive to Survive** and it's really gotten me hooked on the sport. I think there's an opportunity to create interactive visualizations (and animations) using the breadth and depth of data that exists on the sport.

Another idea I want to pursue is the carbon counter data. I was looking for a dataset today that could benefit from being visualized using the same icon sorting that existed in the older iteration of the [Bloomber Billionaires](https://informationart.com/projects/bloomberg-billionaires) product and [GE Home Appliance Energy Use](https://informationart.com/projects/cravath) visualization—both projects lead by Lisa Strausfeld. The icons shape could be based on the car type (pickup, minivan, small-size car), and the color of the icon could signify the powertrain. I think that this along with the context of the paper could make the data more accessible.

Those are two ideas I'm interested in following up on tomorrow. I'll return to the D3 book on Friday after the Media Next Conference.

### Next Steps

1. Read 40 more pages of *Visual Journalism*
1. Follow up on Carbon Counter data emails
1. Start collecting Formula 1 data (there is some already on [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/cjgdev/formula-1-race-data-19502017#drivers.csv), but it doesn't include 2018 data and there is not a lot of info about crashes)