# Master’s Project Proposal

On May 13, 1950, Giuseppe Farina, Luigi Fagioli, and Reg Parnell took first, second, and third (collectively the podium), in the first World Championship Formula One race at the Silverstone Circuit in England. Sixty-eight years, 11 months, and one day later, on April 14, 2019, five-time world champion Lewis Hamilton took first at the 1000th Formula One race, the 2019 Chinese Grand Prix. Over the course of the 998 races that separate these victories, Formula One has changed significantly. From a small set of races primarily in Europe, drivers have gone on to race on six continents. New materials and technology have helped pushed the design of the cars forward, creating machines that go faster on the straights and in the corners. The untimely deaths of drivers like Ayrton Senna and Jules Bianchi have brought forth improvements in driver safety.

For this project, I want to create a visual history of the sport from 1950 to the present day. I'm primarily interested in analyzing and presenting how the design of the cars has changed over time and how that has affected the sport. As regulations evolved and new materials and technology were brought in, car bodies evolved from the torpedo or pipe like shape of the Alfa Romeo 158 to the distinct sleek car with the series of wings and fins to control and harness air flow. Engines have fluctuated in size and power and even now the cars incorporate electric power to get through the races. Along the way, teams tried new ways to navigate the rules and get the advantage on other teams racing. At the 1978 Swedish Grand Prix, the [Brabham BT46](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pukIEuzgd3U), featured a fan that would suck the air under the car to produce more downforce. In the early 90s, the Williams FW15C featured [active suspension](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7AME4v3qZkc) and traction control which gave Alain Prost an extra edge over the drivers, and helped Prost achieve his fourth World Championship. The use of electronic driver aids was banned at the end of the season, but the car had made its mark in the sport by that point.

Before arriving at the cars, I had been considering creating an interactive timeline of the sport, going race by race and adding callouts and links to media to make. Using race data gathered from the [Ergast Developer API](https://ergast.com/mrd/), I built a rough [prototype](http://lennymartinez.com/vis-thesis/prototype/line-chart-all.html) that plotted every race from the 1950 British Grand Prix to the 2019 Azerbaijan Grand Prix, and a line for every driver's finishing positions over their career. Through making this I came to understand how messy it might be to create an annotated timeline with every driver's career on it. Ultimately, I think working with the cars will provide a more direct connection to the sports because it focuses on a specific physical part of the races.

I’ll be looking into each car’s design features, how often they broke down during the season and how many of the races the team racing a specific car won in a season. I’ll also be looking for video clips and photographs of the cars in action and other related themes.

I want to design illustrations instead of working with photographs to have a more consistent visual quality. I found this [collection](https://racingotaku.files.wordpress.com/2009/06/f1cars_50-091.jpg) of every car from 1950 to 2009 to use as a starting point. In terms of presentation, I will create a grid display inspired by the [GE Home Appliance Energy Use](https://informationart.com/projects/cravath) project by Lisa Strausfeld and her team at Pentagram and an older iteration of the [Bloomberg Billionaire Index](https://informationart.com/projects/bloomberg-billionaires), designed by Lisa Strausfeld and her team at Bloomberg Visual Data. The cars would all be on the grid and originally sorted by year so you see the change in the cars that won from 1950 to 2018. The reader could re-sort the list on different dimensions—race team, number of race wins in the season—or filter to only the cars driven by a specific winner. The viewer could then click/tap on a car and get more information on the model:

* The drivers who drove the car (and who won the season)
* The names of the races won in the car
* Information on the car, like key design features of the car, what kind of technical issues it had during the season, and other aspects
* Clips or photographs of the car in action (with consideration of copyright issues)

## Data Sources

Using this [short piece](https://www.foxsports.com/motor/gallery/images-f1-cars-championship-winning-022717) from Fox Sports, and adding in the winner for 2017 and 2018 by checking both Wikipedia pages for the championships and information on [StatsF1](https://www.statsf1.com/en/default.aspx#), I created an initial list of all the winning cars from every season. My initial approach to this project is to compare the cars's dominance each season, looking at how many races they won over the season and what the main causes of breakdowns were during the season.

Using the race data collected by the [Ergast Developer API](http://ergast.com/mrd/) I have every race result for every driver. From the race data I can get the finishing position of every car, and in the case the car didn't complete the race, the reason why. I can use these to compare the cars on how many races they won in their season, standardizing the number of wins to account for the fluctuating number of races each season which range from 7 at the start to 21 in the last couple of years. I can use the retirement reasons to see what kind of problems have plagued the cars that have won championships and if they have changed as the cars have become more complex and optimized.

## Past Work

Looking back at my coursework, I think these projects made during and shortly after I left Syracuse highlight my progress:

My [first data-driven project](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/3bp65gt2y2wtbet/AACzRk4bMA22OYy6PSqOuvLpa?dl=0) was a series of prints where I used text-messages I had exchanged with friends as the "pixels" in out photographs: the closer you got to the print, the less of the overall image you could see and the better you could read the messages.

My second data-driven project was an attempt to tell the story of my last relationship through our text messages, looking at the emotional strength of each message and also at our word choices over three different weeks.

My [third data-driven project](https://www.instagram.com/p/BiNgylbgKCq/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link) was an animation about all the different fire alarms that had gone off on Euclid Street in Syracuse, a popular street for students to live on, during my academic year at Syracuse.

My fourth, and most recent, data-driven project was my work with News21 during our investigation, Hate in America. As part of the investigation I created the interactive piece, _[The State of Hate](https://hateinamerica.news21.com/roadtrip/)_, that summarized and presented our findings from a cross-country road trip I was a part of. I also researched and created an internal database of all the federally prosecuted hate crimes in the last 9 years, which helped others in the newsroom learn and find leads for their stories.

## Project Outcomes

The main outcome of this project will be the interactive visualization and an accompanying write up of the process that will exist as a stand-alone package. I'll also be creating a conference-style talk where I go over the project, the process of making it, and what I've learned, and present that both to the committee and to the audience on the day of the defense as a second outcome. Both outcomes will then be added as part of a redesigned portfolio.

As I get further along, I'll be working to pitch the project to digital publications like The Pudding in the hopes that it can be later published to a wider audience. The time right when I plan to publicly defend, August 7, is at the start of Formula One's summer break and it might be a good time to publish such a piece ahead of the Grand Prix the last weekend of August.

## Student Learning

As a graduate student I've worked to combine my technical background with my studies in communications. I have explored different disciplines and media: virtual reality, augmented reality, 360º videos, graphic design, photography, picture editing, data journalism, product design, and data visualization. I've come to realize how much I enjoy gathering and synthesizing different media and data to produce a piece and also creating things (digital and physical) that allow for learning through exploration. This project will allow me to do more of these two things.

By working on this project, I'll also be able to build a stronger web programming core, working with Javascript and D3 to create the interactive piece. Illustration and motion graphics will likely play a part in the project too, so I'll be learning more about those; I worked on animating [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3foEvxBnh7o) last fall.