Quito, Ecuador, celebrated its 40th anniversary as a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Site this year. Our project aims to connect visual storytellers from universities in the U.S. with visual storytellers, students, and professionals, in Quito to produce stories that are connected by the idea of “looking forward.” Some topics that are being considered are: the role of women, technology, the economy, the environment, and food. 

We’re planning to be in Quito October 2019, for a period of 10–14 days. With some inspiration from projects like the News21 investigations (I participated in the 2018 investigation, [Hate in America](https://hateinamerica.news21.com/); other investigations available [here](https://news21.com/)), and [Family. Life.](www.andreawise.com/familylife) that Andrea Wise and Mike Davis worked together on, we hope to create a digital portal to the content and potentially a book. There might be an opportunity to publish stories with El Commercio.

As project director, I’ll work on defining the focus of the project with input from Mike, Kim, and Loup. I’ll also work on coordinating the people and pieces required to make sure we can deliver on the outcomes once we’re in Quito. If energy permits, I’d also like to have some input in how the content is experienced by viewers afterwards.

I have not done enough research into Quito and what the story will be. I’m planning to be in Miami in mid to late January after my contract at MIT ends and I’ll be working full-time on this project. My focus for the spring is to narrow the focus into possible stories and start collecting contacts for when we are in Quito. If the students are also chosen in this time, it may be helpful to have them help reach out to people in Ecuador based on what stories they are interested in. Maybe there will also be opportunities to work more closely with the interactive/design team from University of Miami in the spring to build the infrastructure over the course of the semester so we can be ready for a quick project turnaround. 

